David Jensenius
david@jensenius.com

Education
2005-2008 	Masters of Arts, Music Composition. Wesleyan University, Middletown CT.
1997-2001 	Bachelor of Science, Computer Science. Millersville University, Millersville, PA.

Professional Experience

2008-Present	Composer/Media Artist.
Build media art pieces and sound compositions using a variety of technologies and custom-built software.
Created FoundSounds - a worldwide social network and collaborative art project
Compositions and art have been displayed internationally and throughout Canada. Please consult Performances/Exhibitions section of CV to view exhibition history
Technology used: ReactJS, NodeJS, Ruby on Rails, Swift, GraphQL, PostgreSQL, MySQL, MongoDB, Redis, AWS, Objective-C, AngularJS, Supercollider, Processing, PHP
Many projects are open source at https://github.com/djensenius

2016-2018	Developer, Shopify. Waterloo, ON
Worked on the Shopify Flow team, an automation tool and visual programming language for merchants to customize their stores and automate their supply management chains, from a rough concept to a shipping product.
First engineer on the Flow project and made decision to use ReactJS for front-end.
Agile process
Used Google-style design sprints to create and iterate Flow.
Created the Sound section of the Shopify design documentation.
Organized Canada Blood drive, concerts, and a movie screening to contribute to the cultural offerings at Shopify.
Trained, mentored, and evaluated student interns
Technology used: ReactJS, Ruby on Rails, MySQL, GraphQL

2016	Developer, Boltmade (Acquired by Shopify). Waterloo, ON
Worked in small teams to build a parking enforcement web app with Xerox Parc.
Participated in design sprints and worked with a small team using an agile-like working style.
Technology used: NodeJS, AngularJS, .NET

2011-2016	Director of Technology, Social Psychology Network. Middletown, CT.
Manage suite of websites aimed at promoting peace and social justice through social psychology with over 320 million impressions by the end of 2015
Create and manage educational web-based tools about sexism, racism, and other forms of prejudice and discrimination
Work with world renown social psychologists such as Philip Zimbardo, Susan Fiske, David Dunning, and many others to preserve their work to the web
Create tools used in classrooms and for homework assignments used internationally 
On-call for emergencies
Extensive knowledge of multiple programming languages and databases
Manage small team of developers
Manage team of student interns and testers
Determine technologies used for future development
Combined these sites had over 320 million impressions by the time I left
Technology used: PHP, NodeJS, MySQL, Objective-C, Perl, Shell Script

2015	Curator, New Music at the Boathouse. The Boathouse. Kitchener, ON.
Curate established and emerging artists for monthly  experimental music series.
Create and edit podcast and YouTube series.
Arrange travel and accommodations as needed.

2011	Curator, New Music at the Gallery concert series. Kitchener-Waterloo Art Gallery, Kitchener, ON
Co-curate established and emerging artists for a series of four experimental music concerts.

2001-2010	Developer, Social Psychology Network. Middletown, CT
Program and maintain multiple custom built websites
On-call for emergencies
Technology used: PHP, NodeJS, MySQL, Objective-C, Perl, Shell Script

2008	Guest Curator, framework radio broadcast and podcast. London, United Kingdom.
Create 1-hour radio program based on Crooked River in First and Third Persons sound installation.

2008	Guest Curator, Monkeytown. Brooklyn, NY.Board Work


Board Work
2018-Present	Board of Directors, Vice President, NUMUS. Waterloo, ON
Chair board meetings when board president is not present.
Review financials.
Participate in fundraising campaigns and give feedback on marketing and venue selection.

2014-2018	Board of Directors, Secretary, WCSS 556 (Arrow Lofts), Kitchener, ON.
Make decisions that are best for the condo corporation and the owners.
Select and work with Property Manager to make sure the building is operating smoothly.
Review financials and offer suggestions for ways to improve the building.

Performances/Exhibitions
2016	Telephone Booth. CAFKA. 16.: What We Do Together That We Can’t Do Alone, Kitchener, ON.

2015 	FoundSounds Saskatoon. Sounds Like Audio Art Festival. aka Artist-Run. Saskatoon, SK.

			HATFinder. Mobile augmented reality sound game with Lauren Burr and Mark Prier. Inertia: A Conference on Sound, Media and the Digital Humanities. UCLA,	Los Angeles, CA. (http://HATFinder.org)

			HATengine. A web-based tool for designing and building augmented reality sound 					games, sound walks, or locative sound installations. (http://HATengine.com)

			Pitzer Multi-Species Commons with SPURSE. Pitzer College, Los Angeles, CA.

2014	Sound design in collaboration with Ruth Gibson and Bruno Martelli. In Search of Abandoned v2. QUAD. Derby, United Kingdom

			FoundSounds. Mobile app for finding and sharing sounds. (https://foundsounds.me)

    	The Elora Piano. Solo Exhibition, Elora Centre for the Arts. Elora, ON. (http://elorapiano.com	)

      Sound design in collaboration with Ruth Gibson and Bruno Martelli. In Search of Abandoned. CAFKA.14: It Should Always Be This Way. 					Kitchener, ON.

			Sound design for Sarah Kernohan’s Study For A Dry Current. Commissioned b Toronto Animated Image Society. Toronto, ON.

2013	Performance of György Ligeti’s Poème Symphonique. Between The Ears - Open Ears 					Festival of Music and Sound. Kitchener, ON.

2012	fragility. Open Ears Festival of Music and Sound. Cambridge, ON.

2011	MATR: Pilgrimage Game Variation, in collaboration with SPURSE. BMW Guggenheim Lab, New York, NY.

      MATR 1291: Mobile Apparatus for Temporality Research, in collaborationwith SPURSE. Part of CAFKA.11: SURVIVE. RESIST., Kitchener, ON.

			Suggestion Machine (alpha), performed by University of Maine faculty and students. Orono, ME.

2010 	Fish Futures, in collaboration with SPURSE. Whitney Independent	Study Program exhibition “UNDERCURRENTS : Experimental Ecosystems in 					Recent Art” New York, NY
			Seeds of Dispersion, in collaboration with SPRUSE. Galera Arsenał, Białysto	Poland.

2009	Selected Works, tour of solo works and improvisation in Chicago, IL, Portland, OR, and New Haven, CT.

      Deep Time + Rapid Time, in collaboration with SPURSE. Grand Arts, Kansas City, MO.

2008 	Four Stochastic (Virtual) Plants for Auditory and Visual Observation, Monkeytown, Brooklyn, NY.

      Crooked River in First and Third Persons, in collaboration with SPURSE. Ingenuity Festival, Cleveland, OH.

      Improvisation as Polish Club, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ.

      7, Monkeytown, Brooklyn, NY.

2007	tc:sw(06-07), Wesleyan University, Middletown, CT.

      Satellites Over Philadelphia, Electro-music Festival, Philadelphia, PA

			(D./C.)e-NTW:v.2.0, Wesleyan University, Middletown, CT.

2006	Capturing the Wumpus, performed by Flux Quartet, Wesleyan University, Middletown, CT.

Lectures/Workshops/Panels
2015	Augmenting the Soundscape: A Tool for Aural Adventures in Urban Environments. Inertia: A Conference on Sound, Media and the Digital Humanities. UCLA, Los	Angeles, CA.

2014 	What does it sound like here? Fluxible, A User Experience Event. Kitchener, ON.

			Technology as a Tool. University of Waterloo REAP. St. Jacobs, ON.

2011	A Geography of the Event. Society for Literature, Science and Art. Kitchener, ON.

      Notes on Accumulation. Lecture and workshop at University of Maine, Orono, ME.

2010	SPURSE research, in collaboration with SPURSE. 2010 CAFKA Lecture Series. Kitchener, ON.

2009	Deep Time Rapid Time: a way-finding workshop and discussion, in collaboration with SPURSE.  Columbia University, New York, NY, New School,  New York, NY.

Recorded Works
ppppppppppppppppppppp, Polish Club, Zyt Recordings, 2012.
7, 440 Music, 2009.
440 Project, 440 Music, 2006.

References
Available upon request.
